The Responsibility Held by Great Tech: https://medium.com/predict/the-responsibility-held-by-great-tech-3063d8e9f168


This article discusses the consequences of discontinuation of products and exits from the market by the companies and their effect on users/consumers. 

I find this article interesting because I think we all heard from older generations how their technology (mostly hardware) had so much longer life spans than the new technology we have nowadays does. This is apparent in cases of mobile phones which now have to be replaced every couple of years or we have to "suffer" low battery life, glitches, and much lower performance compared to newer models. I believe most of this is done on purpose by the companies to encourage users to spend money on new devices more frequently and in that way raise their revenue. However, this problem becomes much larger when we take into account that it's not just our mobile phones that have shorter life spans but also our dishwashers, fridges, coffee machines, and many other house appliances, and this can quickly become very very expensive to maintain up to date. 

One thing that I find particularly interesting (and terrifying) that I have never considered before is what happens when it is not a superficial machine that goes out of date or is pulled from the market but a medically necessary one. In the article, we learn how this can often be the case, especially with companies that are conducting medical trials and the effects on their patients can be horrible. Once patients become reliant on the devices that made their lives easier, taking them away from them can be "as bad as taking away a vital organ". 

I belive that we need to set rules that mandate a period in which companies need to provide maintenance for their products and make sure that these periods are as long as possible, especially in the medical industry.